---
title: 'Bayesian Reaction Optimization Using EDBO - Part I'
date: 2020-09-30
permalink: /posts/2020/09/EDBO pre-release I/
tags:
  - Software
  - Bayesian optimization 
  - Reaction optimization
---

Recently, in collaboration with folks over at Princeton and Bristol Myers Squibb, I finished writing a python package called [**Experimental Design via Bayesian Optimization (EDBO)**](https://b-shields.github.io/edbo/index.html) for reaction optimization which enables the application of Bayesian optimization, an uncertainty guided response surface method, to chemical reactions in the laboratory. Now, the paper is submitted for publication and under review so I have not yet made the repository public. However, to facilitate training and beta testing I am writing a few preliminary posts on (1) installation and basic software usage, (2) simulations with real chemical reaction data, (3) using EDBO in the lab, and (4) tackling computational optimization problems.

**Reference:** Shields, Benjamin J.; Stevens, Jason; Li, Jun; Parasram, Marvin; Damani, Farhan, Martinez Alvarado, Jesus; Janey, Jacob; Adams, Ryan P.; Doyle, Abigail G. "Bayesian Reaction Optimization as A Tool for Chemical Synthesis" Manuscript Submitted.

## Part I

Ok boring stuff first. In this post we will be tackling software installation from the code in my private repository (so no Git, PyPI, or Anaconda for now).

### Installation

#### Install conda 

If you haven't already installed anaconda on your machine you can follow the [**instructions provided by conda**](https://docs.conda.io/projects/conda/en/latest/user-guide/install/).

#### Install EDBO

*Option 1: Script*

I wrote a shell script (install.sh) to install edbo on windows machines. You will find a copy in the *edbo.zip* folder provided.

1. Download and unzip the folder.

2. Open an anaconda prompt, navigate to the edbo directory, and run the script.

```
cd path/to/edbo/directory
sh install.sh
```

*Option 2: Manual*

Alternatively you can install edbo from the anaconda prompt manually. 

1. Open up an anaconda prompt (or terminal for Mac and Linux users), navigate to the edbo directory, and create a conda environment.

```
cd path/to/edbo/directory
conda create -y --name edbo python=3.7.5
conda activate edbo
```

2. Install conda dependencies.

```
conda install -y -c rdkit rdkit
conda install -y -c rdkit -c mordred-descriptor mordred
conda install -y pandas=0.25.3 numpy=1.17.4 xlrd
conda install -y pytorch=1.3.1 cudatoolkit=10.1 torchvision -c pytorch
conda install -y scikit-learn=0.22.1
conda install -y matplotlib seaborn
conda install -y dill
```

3. Install dependencies not available via conda.

```
pip install gpytorch==1.0.0 pyclustering==0.9.3.1
pip install pyro-ppl==1.1
```

4. Install edbo.

```
python setup.py develop
```

5. Install your favorite code editor (e.g., Jupyter Lab).

```
conda install -y jupyterlab
```

## Software tests

Use the pytest framework to run some basic software tests to make sure the installation worked. In the anaconda prompt (or terminal for Mac/Linux) navigate to the folder containing edbo. Then run the following commands and you will see test logs appear in the testing directory. These may take a few min to run but you should see some warnings but no failed tests.

```
conda activate edbo
cd tests
sh basic_tests.sh
```
