---
title: <sup>3</sup>d-d Excited States of Ni(II) Complexes Relevant to Photoredox Catalysis: Spectroscopic Identification and Mechanistic Implications
collection: publications
permalink: /publication/2009-10-01-paper-title-number-1
excerpt: Systematic evaluation and assignment of long-lived excited states of Ni(II) aryl halide complexes.
date: 2020-03-01
venue: Journal of the American Chemical Society
paperurl: https://pubs.acs.org/doi/full/10.1021/jacs.6b08397?src=recsys
citation: Ting, Stephen I.; Garakyaraghi, Sofia; Taliaferro, Chelsea M.; Shields, Benjamin J.; Scholes, Gregory D.; Castellano, Felix N.; and Doyle, Abigail G. “3d-d Excited States of Ni(II) Complexes Relevant to Photoredox Catalysis: Spectroscopic Identification and Mechanistic Implications” J. Am. Chem. Soc., 2020, 111, 111–111.
---
Synthetic organic chemistry has been revolutionized by the merger of nickel catalysis and photoredox catalysis. Canonically, photoredox catalysts modify the nickel catalyst and/or substrates through electron transfer. However, an increasing number of transformations are proposed to involve generation of excited nickel species, sometimes even in the absence of a photoredox catalyst. Thus, the excited states of nickel complexes relevant to Ni-photoredox are clearly important, although they have been scarcely studied. Previous work from two of our groups studied the photophysics of Ni(t-Bubpy)(o-Tol)Cl, which is representative of proposed intermediates in many Ni-photoredox reactions. This complex was found to have a long-lived excited state (τ = 4 ns), which was computationally assigned as a metal-to-ligand charge transfer (MLCT) state with an energy of 1.6 eV (38 kcal/mol). This work evaluates the computational assignment experimentally. Ultrafast UV-Vis and mid-IR transient absorption data suggest that a MLCT state is generated initially upon excitation, but decays to a long-lived state that is 3d-d rather than 3MLCT in character. Dynamic cis,trans-isomerization was observed in the dark using 1H NMR techniques, supporting that this 3d-d state is tetrahedral and accessible at ambient temperature. Through a combination of transient absorption and NMR studies, the 3d-d energy was determined to be ~0.5 eV (11 kcal/mol) above the ground state. Because the 3d-d state features an extremely weak Ni–aryl bond, the excited Ni(II) complexes can undergo Ni–aryl homolysis to generate Ni(I). Since Ni(I) is proposed to be a catalytically active form of Ni in many contexts, light may serve to initiate a dark reaction catalyzed by Ni(I).

[Download paper here](http://academicpages.github.io/files/paper1.pdf)

Recommended citation: Ting, Stephen I.; Garakyaraghi, Sofia; Taliaferro, Chelsea M.; Shields, Benjamin J.; Scholes, Gregory D.; Castellano, Felix N.; and Doyle, Abigail G. “3d-d Excited States of Ni(II) Complexes Relevant to Photoredox Catalysis: Spectroscopic Identification and Mechanistic Implications” J. Am. Chem. Soc., 2020, 111, 111–111.
