---
title: Bayesian reaction optimization as a tool for chemical synthesis
collection: publications
permalink: /publication/2021-02-03-Nature-7
excerpt: Here we report the development of a framework for Bayesian reaction optimization and an open-source software tool that allows chemists to easily integrate state-of-the-art optimization algorithms into their everyday laboratory practices.
date: 2021-02-03
venue: Nature
paperurl: https://www.nature.com/articles/s41586-021-03213-y
citation: Shields, Benjamin J.; Stevens, Jason; Li, Jun; Parasram, Marvin; Damani, Farhan; Martinez Alvarado, Jesus; Janey, Jacob; Adams, Ryan; Doyle, Abigail G. "Bayesian Reaction Optimization as A Tool for Chemical Synthesis", Nature, 2021, 590, 89–96.
---
Optimization is ubiquitous in pharmaceutical development, from tuning chemical structure to maximize potency to optimizing the yield of a chemical process. Likewise, parameter optimization is omnipresent in artificial intelligence, from tuning virtual personal assistants to training social media and product recommendation systems. Owing to the high cost associated with carrying out experiments, scientists in both areas set numerous (hyper)parameter values by evaluating only a small subset of possible configurations. Bayesian optimization, an iterative  response surface-based global optimization algorithm, has demonstrated exceptional performance in the tuning of machine learning algorithms. Here we report the development of a framework for Bayesian reaction optimization and an open-source software tool that allows chemists to easily integrate state-of-the-art optimization algorithms into their everyday laboratory practices. We collect a large benchmark dataset for a palladium-catalyzed direct arylation reaction, perform a systematic study of Bayesian optimization compared to human decision-making in reaction optimization, and apply Bayesian optimization to two real-world optimization efforts. Our findings demonstrate that Bayesian optimization outperforms human decision making  in both average optimization efficiency and consistency. Overall, our studies suggest that incorporating Bayesian optimization methods into everyday laboratory practices could facilitate more efficient synthesis of functional chemicals by enabling better-informed, data-driven decisions about which experiments to run. 

[Download paper here](http://b-shields.github.io/files/2021-02-03-Nature.pdf)


